=Blogging=
I have been blogging for almost six years now. Starting as a technical blogger
and later maintaining an online diary to track the personal events of my life,
my experience with blogging has always been a pleasant one. I started
blogging after hearing an interesting talk on blogging in a college technical
festival. Since then, I have been a frequent blogger. With the busy schedules as
a developer and now a researcher, the number of blog posts that I have been
writing has reduced significantly. And now I am in a state where I haven't
blogged for months. But deep down my vast sea of thoughts,the desire to blog
still remains.

I have almost tried with every big blogging platform in the market. But I
disliked one or the other default features.Instead of ranting about this
displeasure, I kept blogging. But blogging has now taken a different shape in my
life. On one hand, reading blogs from people from different parts of the world
not only helped me to improve my vocabulary and word usage, but also it helped
me to understand the various cultures, traditions and lifestyle. It made me
realize the different audience around the world. Experiments has always been
part of my life and career. Being a developer and a researcher, testing new
ideas is not remote to me. With every experiment, a new lesson is learnt and in
some cases, some old hypothesis is confirmed. 

As mentioned before, I haven't posted for quite a long time. But it was also a
sort of background preparation for some experimentation with blogging. I would
call it the Blogging 2.0 of my life. Before explaining this second version, I
would first like to explain what exactly was Blogging 1.0 for me

* '''Dependence on Blogging Platforms''': Name any major blogging platform, I have
posted on them for a while, only to close the account at a later point of time.
My major complaint with these blogging platforms is that they behave in 'One
size fits all' approach. Every time I wished to change something whether it be
the theme or the layout, either it's not possible or deactivated deliberately.
It means that I had to be satisfied with the default features. As a programmer,
it sometimes frustrated me.
* '''Analytics''': One can call it a boon, I personally feel that 'analytics' is a
distracting element of any major platform. You can't deactivate this feature.
There are various reasons that I dislike analytics. I believe that all these
points of disagreement is of course, a great opportunity for many. I blog
because of my desire to do so, to create an online space for my thoughts. But
what analytics offers me is to give me an idea about the query search strings
that redirected them to my blog. For people involved in search engine
optimization(SEO), they would like to make the best use of it to create new
content. In short, now they write posts that suits their audience. But this is
not my intent with blogging. I blog because I like to do so. And I don't want to
write for any specific audience. I end up checking the number of visitors and
the unique visitors quite often. I consider such an act of mine a total wastage
of time.
* '''Likes and Comments''': This is a very controversial topic for me. I still
struggle to answer this question. Should I enable or disable commenting? On one
hand, it helps me to understand the point of views of the audience. But then on
the other hand, I am still reduced to being a blogger for the audience. With the
recent social networking frenzy of past few years, I often feel that a new trend
has emerged up in the blogging world, 'You give me a like, And I will give you
too' or 'I comment, You comment'. Commenting or the appreciating a piece of work
just for namesake. Sorry to state that such a behavior doesn't amuse me at all.

I am sure that there will be people who disagree with me. And I respect that
disagreement. But I wanted to put forth my point of view. Should I call this a
rant? No, I don't think so. I would rather call Blogging 1.0 as the stepping
stone for Blogging 2.0, the stepping stone.  Blogging 1.0 helped me to
understand clearly what I want. And I can sum it up as '''Blogging without
distraction'''.

So what's '''''Blogging 2.0''''' for me?
* '''A distraction-free textual writing''': No more web based blogging editors. No more
searching in the internet for options to add a link, an image or any
multimedia. Just plain 'textual' writing. And not even HTML (5.0) to jot down my
thoughts. I have decided to use the ''wiki markup'' to write my thoughts. I use
textual editors like 'vim' that help me to focus on my content and just on my
content.
* '''Using a version control to track changes''': As a researcher, one thing
that I am aware of is that sometimes it's the lack of data (or evidence) that
hinders the development of new hypothesis. Yes, I am aware of the fact that the
current decade is often referred to a period of 'Big Data'. And that's the
reason, I also want to track the changes in my writing. If I make a change in a
post, I would like to know when and why I made the change (Some blogging
platforms  do provide this feature, but it's more of an internal feature 
representation. But I want a more open option)
* '''No comments and no analytics''': I don't wish to add any script that allows
commenting or tracking.

How would I measure the results of Blogging 2.0? If I am able to achieve what I
want from my writing, the great inner satisfaction that one feels on receiving
something that one considers as the most valuable.

I just hope that Blogging 2.0 will help me to achieve what I want from writing.
Will there be Blogging 3.0 phase? Of course, the answer is yes. Life's an
experiment with new things to learn every moment

=JS=
